README.md, before:

[![Python 3.7 | 3.8 | 3.9 | 3.10](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10-blue)](https://www.python.org/downloads)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)

[![pre-commit.ci status](https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/Preocts/python-src-template/main.svg)](https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/Preocts/python-src-template/main)
[![Python tests](https://github.com/Preocts/python-src-template/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/Preocts/python-src-template/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/Preocts/f26cb21234ff10087c74b977705af024/raw/python-src-template-main)](https://nedbatchelder.com/blog/202209/making_a_coverage_badge.html)

# python-src-template

## A template I use for most projects.

Straight forward to use!

**Kind of...**

While this is the way I usually start my Python project setup this is far from
the only way to do things. I invite you to use my template.  I also challenge
you to craft the structure that works both for your project and you, creating
your own template.  The amount of learning in doing so is well worth the effort.

---

### What to change for setup:

* Remove the following place-holder files:
  * `src/module_name/sample_data`
  * `src/module_name/sample.py`
  * `tests/test_sample.py`
* Raname `src/module_name` to the desired project name
* Update `pyproject.toml`:
  * `[project]` section:
    * `name`, `version`, `description`, `authors`
    * `dependencies`
      * see alternative for requirements.in if desired
  * `[project.urls]`
    * Update github homepage values
  * `[tool.coverage.run]`
    * `source_pkgs` : Update to reflect new `module_name` and any additional
      modules
* Coverage badge setup:
  * If needed: Create an empty, private gist
  * Save the gist's id to repository secret `COV_BADGE_GIST`
  * If needed: Create a personal access token (PAT) with `gist` access
  * Save the PAT to repository secret `COV_BADGE_TOKEN`
  * **Note:** The coverage step is completely optional and will be skipped if
    above secrets are missing.
* Update `README.md` - Badges:
  * Update owner and repo name of urls for `pre-commit.ci` badge
  * Update owner and repo name of urls for `python tests` badge
  * Update owner and repo name of gist url for `coverage` badge
  * Replace gistId (from coverage setup) for `coverage` badge
* Update `README.md` - Content:
  * Replace title and this setup information
  * Under **Local developer installation**
    * Replace `{{ORG_NAME}}` with github name
    * Replace `{{REPO_NAME}}` with repo name

### Why `src/` structure:

The benefit I get from this project structure comes from testing. The `src/`
structure forces us to test on the installed version of the modules within
`site-packages/` and not our local code. Even though these files are symlinked
in most cases with the dev install, the calls and import references are the
same. This ensures we are testing on what will be setup in the not-my machine.

---

# Local developer installation

It is **strongly** recommended to use a virtual environment
([`venv`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)) when working with python
projects. Leveraging a `venv` will ensure the installed dependency files will
not impact other python projects or any system dependencies.

The following steps outline how to install this repo for local development. See
the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file in the repo root for information on
contributing to the repo.

**Windows users**: Depending on your python install you will use `py` in place
of `python` to create the `venv`.

**Linux/Mac users**: Replace `python`, if needed, with the appropriate call to
the desired version while creating the `venv`. (e.g. `python3` or `python3.8`)

**All users**: Once inside an active `venv` all systems should allow the use of
`python` for command line instructions. This will ensure you are using the
`venv`'s python and not the system level python.

---

## Installation steps

Clone this repo and enter root directory of repo:

```console
$ git clone https://github.com/[ORG NAME]/[REPO NAME]
$ cd [REPO NAME]
```

Create the `venv`:

```console
$ python -m venv venv
```

Activate the `venv`:

```console
# Linux/Mac
$ . venv/bin/activate

# Windows
$ venv\Scripts\activate
```

The command prompt should now have a `(venv)` prefix on it. `python` will now
call the version of the interpreter used to create the `venv`

Install editable library and development requirements:

```console
# Update pip and tools
$ python -m pip install --upgrade pip

# Install editable version of library
$ python -m pip install --editable .[dev]
```

Install pre-commit [(see below for details)](#pre-commit):

```console
$ pre-commit install
```

---

## Misc Steps

Run pre-commit on all files:

```console
$ pre-commit run --all-files
```

Run tests:

```console
$ tox [-r] [-e py3x]
```

Build dist:

```console
$ python -m pip install --upgrade build

$ python -m build
```

To deactivate (exit) the `venv`:

```console
$ deactivate
```
---

## Note on flake8:

`flake8` is included in the `requirements-dev.txt` of the project. However it
disagrees with `black`, the formatter of choice, on max-line-length and two
general linting errors. `.pre-commit-config.yaml` is already configured to
ignore these. `flake8` doesn't support `pyproject.toml` so be sure to add the
following to the editor of choice as needed.

```ini
--ignore=W503,E203
--max-line-length=88
```

---

## [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com)

> A framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.

This repo is setup with a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` with the expectation that
any code submitted for review already passes all selected pre-commit checks.
`pre-commit` is installed with the development requirements and runs seemlessly
with `git` hooks.

---

## Makefile

This repo has a Makefile with some quality of life scripts if the system
supports `make`.  Please note there are no checks for an active `venv` in the
Makefile.

| PHONY             | Description                                                                |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`            | Update pip to newest version                                               |
| `install`         | install the project                                                        |
| `install-dev`     | install development/test requirements and project as editable install      |
| `upgrade-dev`     | update all dependencies, regenerate requirements.txt (disabled by default) |
| `coverage`        | Runs `tox -p`. results to stdout, json, and html                           |
| `build-dist`      | Build source distribution and wheel distribution                           |
| `clean-artifacts` | Deletes python/mypy artifacts, cache, and pyc files                        |
| `clean-tests`     | Deletes tox, coverage, and pytest artifacts                                |
| `clean-build`     | Deletes build artifacts                                                    |
| `clean`           | Deletes build, tox, coverage, pytest, mypy, cache, and pyc artifacts       |

Commit message:

Add quick init script for updating template files

README.md, after:

[![Python 3.7 | 3.8 | 3.9 | 3.10](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10-blue)](https://www.python.org/downloads)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)

[![pre-commit.ci status](https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/Preocts/python-src-template/main.svg)](https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/Preocts/python-src-template/main)
[![Python tests](https://github.com/Preocts/python-src-template/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/Preocts/python-src-template/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://gist.githubusercontent.com/Preocts/f26cb21234ff10087c74b977705af024/raw/python-src-template-main)](https://nedbatchelder.com/blog/202209/making_a_coverage_badge.html)

# python-src-template

## A template I use for most projects.

Straight forward to use!

**Kind of...**

While this is the way I usually start my Python project setup this is far from
the only way to do things. I invite you to use my template.  I also challenge
you to craft the structure that works both for your project and you, creating
your own template.  The amount of learning in doing so is well worth the effort.

---

### Quick setup:

Clone the repo or click the "Use this template" button in GitHub

If you clone the repo instead of using it as a template; be sure to delete the
`.git` folder and run `git init` before making any changes.

Run the `init_template.py` script found in the root of the repo. You will be
prompted for details and the steps listed below completed for you. You may then
delete the `init_template.py` file, commit all changes, and dev on.

---

### What to change for manual setup:

* Remove the following place-holder files:
  * `src/module_name/sample_data`
  * `src/module_name/sample.py`
  * `tests/test_sample.py`
* Raname `src/module_name` to the desired project name
* Update `pyproject.toml`:
  * `[project]` section:
    * `name`, `version`, `description`, `authors`
    * `dependencies`
      * see alternative for requirements.in if desired
  * `[project.urls]`
    * Update github homepage values
  * `[tool.coverage.run]`
    * `source_pkgs` : Update to reflect new `module_name` and any additional
      modules
* Coverage badge setup:
  * If needed: Create an empty, private gist
  * Save the gist's id to repository secret `COV_BADGE_GIST`
  * If needed: Create a personal access token (PAT) with `gist` access
  * Save the PAT to repository secret `COV_BADGE_TOKEN`
  * **Note:** The coverage step is completely optional and will be skipped if
    above secrets are missing.
* Update `README.md` - Badges:
  * Update owner and repo name of urls for `pre-commit.ci` badge
  * Update owner and repo name of urls for `python tests` badge
  * Update owner and repo name of gist url for `coverage` badge
  * Replace gistId (from coverage setup) for `coverage` badge
* Update `README.md` - Content:
  * Replace title and this setup information
  * Under **Local developer installation**
    * Replace `{{ORG_NAME}}` with github name
    * Replace `{{REPO_NAME}}` with repo name

### Why `src/` structure:

The benefit I get from this project structure comes from testing. The `src/`
structure forces us to test on the installed version of the modules within
`site-packages/` and not our local code. Even though these files are symlinked
in most cases with the dev install, the calls and import references are the
same. This ensures we are testing on what will be setup in the not-my machine.

---

# Local developer installation

It is **strongly** recommended to use a virtual environment
([`venv`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)) when working with python
projects. Leveraging a `venv` will ensure the installed dependency files will
not impact other python projects or any system dependencies.

The following steps outline how to install this repo for local development. See
the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file in the repo root for information on
contributing to the repo.

**Windows users**: Depending on your python install you will use `py` in place
of `python` to create the `venv`.

**Linux/Mac users**: Replace `python`, if needed, with the appropriate call to
the desired version while creating the `venv`. (e.g. `python3` or `python3.8`)

**All users**: Once inside an active `venv` all systems should allow the use of
`python` for command line instructions. This will ensure you are using the
`venv`'s python and not the system level python.

---

## Installation steps

Clone this repo and enter root directory of repo:

```console
$ git clone https://github.com/[ORG NAME]/[REPO NAME]
$ cd [REPO NAME]
```

Create the `venv`:

```console
$ python -m venv venv
```

Activate the `venv`:

```console
# Linux/Mac
$ . venv/bin/activate

# Windows
$ venv\Scripts\activate
```

The command prompt should now have a `(venv)` prefix on it. `python` will now
call the version of the interpreter used to create the `venv`

Install editable library and development requirements:

```console
# Update pip and tools
$ python -m pip install --upgrade pip

# Install editable version of library
$ python -m pip install --editable .[dev]
```

Install pre-commit [(see below for details)](#pre-commit):

```console
$ pre-commit install
```

---

## Misc Steps

Run pre-commit on all files:

```console
$ pre-commit run --all-files
```

Run tests:

```console
$ tox [-r] [-e py3x]
```

Build dist:

```console
$ python -m pip install --upgrade build

$ python -m build
```

To deactivate (exit) the `venv`:

```console
$ deactivate
```
---

## Note on flake8:

`flake8` is included in the `requirements-dev.txt` of the project. However it
disagrees with `black`, the formatter of choice, on max-line-length and two
general linting errors. `.pre-commit-config.yaml` is already configured to
ignore these. `flake8` doesn't support `pyproject.toml` so be sure to add the
following to the editor of choice as needed.

```ini
--ignore=W503,E203
--max-line-length=88
```

---

## [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com)

> A framework for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.

This repo is setup with a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` with the expectation that
any code submitted for review already passes all selected pre-commit checks.
`pre-commit` is installed with the development requirements and runs seemlessly
with `git` hooks.

---

## Makefile

This repo has a Makefile with some quality of life scripts if the system
supports `make`.  Please note there are no checks for an active `venv` in the
Makefile.

| PHONY             | Description                                                                |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`            | Update pip to newest version                                               |
| `install`         | install the project                                                        |
| `install-dev`     | install development/test requirements and project as editable install      |
| `upgrade-dev`     | update all dependencies, regenerate requirements.txt (disabled by default) |
| `coverage`        | Runs `tox -p`. results to stdout, json, and html                           |
| `build-dist`      | Build source distribution and wheel distribution                           |
| `clean-artifacts` | Deletes python/mypy artifacts, cache, and pyc files                        |
| `clean-tests`     | Deletes tox, coverage, and pytest artifacts                                |
| `clean-build`     | Deletes build artifacts                                                    |
| `clean`           | Deletes build, tox, coverage, pytest, mypy, cache, and pyc artifacts       |
